README.md, before:

# HWBUG - Memory (HW Register) read/write Utility

There are two tools, that supports read/write access to physical memory locations (e.g. device registers):

- hwbug - classic hwbug tool with CLI
- hwbug_cmd - scriptable hwbug tool with call parameters

Note: The repo contains the following hwbug binaries:

- x86 32-bit    : hwbug_x86, hwbug_cmd_x86
- PowerPc 32-bit: hwbug_ppc, hwbug_cmd_ppc

## hwbug

### hwbug Command Line Interface

```
Commands:
 C[B|W|L][N][<#>] <adr> [<val>] Change memory
                                  (B)yte/(W)ord/(L)ong access, (N)oRead,
                                  increment B/W/L or <#> bytes,
                                  use '-' to go back and '.' to quit
 F[B|W|L]  <adr> <cnt> <val>    Fill memory with <val>
                                  (B)yte (W)ord (L)ong
 F[B|W|L]P <adr> <cnt>          Fill memory with linear pattern
                                  (B)yte (W)ord (L)ong
 D[B|W|L] [<adr>] [<cnt>]       Display memory
                                  (B)yte (W)ord (L)ong
 I                              i/o mapped accesses (if supported)
 M                              memory mapped accesses (default)
 H                              Show this usage info
 Q                              Quit

Line Editing Features:
 ^W = up history       ^N = down history
 ^H = delete char      ^X = kill line

Note: Only 32-bit addresses are supported
```

### hwbug Calling Examples

Dump 0x40 bytes from specified memory range (word access)
```
HwBug> DW D9214400 40
d9214400+0000: 0100 0302 0504 0706 0908 0b0a 0d0c 0f0e ................
d9214400+0010: 1110 1312 1514 1716 1918 1b1a 1d1c 1f1e ................
d9214400+0020: 2120 2322 2524 2726 2928 2b2a 2d2c 2f2e  !"#$%&'()*+,-./
d9214400+0030: 3130 3332 3534 3736 3938 3b3a 3d3c 3f3e 0123456789:;<=>?
```

Write value into 32-bit register and read it back (long access)
```
HwBug> CL B0405000
b0405000: 00000000 -> 300
b0405004: 00000000 -> -
b0405000: 00000300
```

## hwbug_cmd

### hwbug_cmd Usage

```
Usage:    hwbug_cmd <startaddr> [<endaddr>] [<opts>]

Function: Mem R/W Utility
          Only 32-bit addresses are supported

Options:                             [default]
    [-d]       dump memory
    [-v=<hex>  write hex to memory   [0x0]
    [-b|-w|-l] byte/word/long access [byte]
    [-i]       i/o mapped access     [memory mapped]

Calling examples:
 - dump memory address range (memory mapped, byte access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xfdbe0000 0xfdbeffff -d
 - write value to memory (memory-mapped, long access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xfdbe0000 -l -v=0x12345678
 - disable F11S FPGA watchdog (i/o-mapped, word access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xd910 -w -v=0x7fff -i
 - enable F11S FPGA watchdog (i/o-mapped, word access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xd910 -w -v=0x8000 -i

(c) 2018-2019, MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH, Version 1.2
```

### hwbug_cmd Calling Examples

Dump 0x20 bytes from specified memory range (long access)
```
# ./hwbug_cmd 0xb8200000 0xb8200020 -l -d
Dump memory b8200000..b8200020
b8200000+00000000: 00004101 0000abce 2d353132 43493030 .A......215-00IC
b8200000+00000010: 41313030 0060133f 00000000 00000000 001A?.`.........
```

Write value into specified memory range and read it back (long access)
```
# ./hwbug_cmd 0xb82003f0 0xb82003f8 -l -v=73
Write value 0x73 to memory 0xb82003f0..0xb82003f8

# ./hwbug_cmd 0xb82003f0 0xb82003f8 -l -d
Dump memory b82003f0..b82003f8
b82003f0+00000000: 00000073 00000073                   s...s...
```

Dump 0x30 bytes from specified memory range (byte access, i/o mapped)
```
# ./hwbug_cmd -d -i 0x10 0x40

i/o mapped access

Dump memory 10..40
00000010+00000000: 00 d7 01 d5 03 d5 12 d7 00 ff ff ff ff ff ff 0f ................
00000010+00000010: 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff ................
00000010+00000020: 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff ................
```

## Build

To build hwbug and hwbug_cmd, you have two possibilities:

### Standalone build

```
# make
```

### Building with MDIS project

Edit MDIS project Makefile to contain:
```
    ALL_COM_TOOLS = \
        HWBUG/program.mak
```
or add it with mdiswiz tool (Project->Settings->Software Modules)

Commit message:

Add note to README.md file
Fix issue 'Dp minorfixes'
https://github.com/MEN-Mikro-Elektronik/hwbug/pull/4

This modification is necessary to inform user that this repository contains
HWBUG implementation for only Linux

README.md, after:

# HWBUG - Memory (HW Register) read/write Utility

Note: This repo contains currently only the HWBUG for Linux implementation.

There are two tools, that supports read/write access to physical memory locations (e.g. device registers):

- hwbug - classic hwbug tool with CLI
- hwbug_cmd - scriptable hwbug tool with call parameters

Note: The repo contains the following hwbug binaries:

- x86 32-bit    : hwbug_x86, hwbug_cmd_x86
- PowerPc 32-bit: hwbug_ppc, hwbug_cmd_ppc

## hwbug

### hwbug Command Line Interface

```
Commands:
 C[B|W|L][N][<#>] <adr> [<val>] Change memory
                                  (B)yte/(W)ord/(L)ong access, (N)oRead,
                                  increment B/W/L or <#> bytes,
                                  use '-' to go back and '.' to quit
 F[B|W|L]  <adr> <cnt> <val>    Fill memory with <val>
                                  (B)yte (W)ord (L)ong
 F[B|W|L]P <adr> <cnt>          Fill memory with linear pattern
                                  (B)yte (W)ord (L)ong
 D[B|W|L] [<adr>] [<cnt>]       Display memory
                                  (B)yte (W)ord (L)ong
 I                              i/o mapped accesses (if supported)
 M                              memory mapped accesses (default)
 H                              Show this usage info
 Q                              Quit

Line Editing Features:
 ^W = up history       ^N = down history
 ^H = delete char      ^X = kill line

Note: Only 32-bit addresses are supported
```

### hwbug Calling Examples

Dump 0x40 bytes from specified memory range (word access)
```
HwBug> DW D9214400 40
d9214400+0000: 0100 0302 0504 0706 0908 0b0a 0d0c 0f0e ................
d9214400+0010: 1110 1312 1514 1716 1918 1b1a 1d1c 1f1e ................
d9214400+0020: 2120 2322 2524 2726 2928 2b2a 2d2c 2f2e  !"#$%&'()*+,-./
d9214400+0030: 3130 3332 3534 3736 3938 3b3a 3d3c 3f3e 0123456789:;<=>?
```

Write value into 32-bit register and read it back (long access)
```
HwBug> CL B0405000
b0405000: 00000000 -> 300
b0405004: 00000000 -> -
b0405000: 00000300
```

## hwbug_cmd

### hwbug_cmd Usage

```
Usage:    hwbug_cmd <startaddr> [<endaddr>] [<opts>]

Function: Mem R/W Utility
          Only 32-bit addresses are supported

Options:                             [default]
    [-d]       dump memory
    [-v=<hex>  write hex to memory   [0x0]
    [-b|-w|-l] byte/word/long access [byte]
    [-i]       i/o mapped access     [memory mapped]

Calling examples:
 - dump memory address range (memory mapped, byte access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xfdbe0000 0xfdbeffff -d
 - write value to memory (memory-mapped, long access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xfdbe0000 -l -v=0x12345678
 - disable F11S FPGA watchdog (i/o-mapped, word access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xd910 -w -v=0x7fff -i
 - enable F11S FPGA watchdog (i/o-mapped, word access):
    hwbug_cmd 0xd910 -w -v=0x8000 -i

(c) 2018-2019, MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH, Version 1.2
```

### hwbug_cmd Calling Examples

Dump 0x20 bytes from specified memory range (long access)
```
# ./hwbug_cmd 0xb8200000 0xb8200020 -l -d
Dump memory b8200000..b8200020
b8200000+00000000: 00004101 0000abce 2d353132 43493030 .A......215-00IC
b8200000+00000010: 41313030 0060133f 00000000 00000000 001A?.`.........
```

Write value into specified memory range and read it back (long access)
```
# ./hwbug_cmd 0xb82003f0 0xb82003f8 -l -v=73
Write value 0x73 to memory 0xb82003f0..0xb82003f8

# ./hwbug_cmd 0xb82003f0 0xb82003f8 -l -d
Dump memory b82003f0..b82003f8
b82003f0+00000000: 00000073 00000073                   s...s...
```

Dump 0x30 bytes from specified memory range (byte access, i/o mapped)
```
# ./hwbug_cmd -d -i 0x10 0x40

i/o mapped access

Dump memory 10..40
00000010+00000000: 00 d7 01 d5 03 d5 12 d7 00 ff ff ff ff ff ff 0f ................
00000010+00000010: 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff ................
00000010+00000020: 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff 80 ff ff ff ................
```

## Build

To build hwbug and hwbug_cmd, you have two possibilities:

### Standalone build

```
# make
```

### Building with MDIS project

Edit MDIS project Makefile to contain:
```
    ALL_COM_TOOLS = \
        HWBUG/program.mak
```
or add it with mdiswiz tool (Project->Settings->Software Modules)
